.\" Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Rodolphe Bréard <rodolphe@breard.tf>
.\"
.\" Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
.\" are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
.\" notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
.\" without any warranty.
.Dd May 4, 2021
.Dt ACMED 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm acmed
.Nd ACME client daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c|--config Ar FILE
.Op Fl f|--foreground
.Op Fl h|--help
.Op Fl -log-stderr
.Op Fl -log-syslog
.Op Fl -log-level Ar LEVEL
.Op Fl -pid-file Ar FILE
.Op Fl -root-cert Ar FILE
.Op Fl V|--version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is an Automatic Certificate Management Environment
.Pq ACME
client daemon which can automatically request and renew X.509 security certificates from various Certification Authorities
.Pq CA .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag
.It Fl c, -config Ar FILE
Specify an alternative configuration file.
.It Fl f, -foreground
Runs in the foreground
.It Fl h, -help
Prints help information
.It Fl -log-stderr
Prints log messages to the standard error output
.It Fl -log-syslog
Sends log messages via syslog
.It Fl -log-level Ar LEVEL
Specify the log level. Possible values: error, warn, info, debug and trace.
.It Fl -pid-file Ar FILE
Specifies the location of the PID file
.It Fl -root-cert Ar FILE
Add a root certificate to the trust store. This option can be used multiple times.
.It Fl V, -version
Prints version information
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag
.It Pa /etc/acmed/acmed.toml
Default
.Nm
configuration file.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr acmed.toml 5 ,
.Xr tacd 8
.Sh STANDARDS
.Bl -hyphen
.It
.Rs
.%A R. Barnes
.%A J. Hoffman-Andrews
.%A D. McCarney
.%A J. Kasten
.%D March 2019
.%R RFC 8555
.%T Automatic Certificate Management Environment (ACME)
.Re
.It
.Rs
.%A R.B. Shoemaker
.%D February 2020
.%R RFC 8737
.%T Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) TLS Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) Challenge Extension
.Re
.It
.Rs
.Rs
.%A R.B. Shoemaker
.%D February 2020
.%R RFC 8738
.%T Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) IP Identifier Validation Extension
.Re
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Rodolphe Bréard
.Aq rodolphe@breard.tf
